---
layout: post
title: PhD position in phylogenomic inference
author: Admin
date: 2025-03-18
tags:
  - open position
categories: 
  - join
---

PhD positions are available in our lab at the [School of
Computing](https://comp.anu.edu.au/), Australian National University (ANU). We
are seeking highly motivated students to work on the next generation of models
and methods for phylogenetic analysis in the genomic era. The specific research
direction will be shaped by your interests and experience, with potential areas
including: developing machine learning methods for phylogenetics; designing
efficient algorithms for tree search; co-estimating multiple trees; inferring
time trees; modeling evolutions with mixture models; and exploring new
approaches for cancer phylogenetics.  Students will implement novel models and
methods in the widely used [IQ-TREE software](http://www.iqtree.org).

The ANU campus is situated in the heart of Australia’s capital city, Canberra,
which has been named the second-best city in the world for quality of life
according to the [Oxford Economics Global Cities
report](https://www.oxfordeconomics.com/global-cities-index/). ANU holds an
international reputation for research excellence and is ranked among the top
universities worldwide (30th globally in the QS World University Rankings 2025).

**Candidate requirements:**

- Excellent programming skills and a solid background in computing, with a
degree in computer science or a related field.

- Outstanding academic record, including a high-distinction honours degree, a
Master’s by research, or equivalent research experience.

- Biological knowledge is beneficial but not essential; high school-level
biology is sufficient.

- Good oral and written English skills.

**Scholarship opportunities:** ANU scholarships are competitive, covering all
fees and providing a stipend of approximately $38K per annum. There are multiple
scholarship opportunities available - please refer to the list below this post
for more details.

**How to apply?**

Please email m.bui (at) anu.edu.au with the following:

- A detailed CV.

- Full academic transcripts.

- A written statement explaining why you would be a good fit for the lab.

- A brief description of your research interests and how they intersect with
this project.

The next scholarship round closes in August 2025; please contact us **by 30 June
2025** to discuss your proposal and strengthen your application for better
scholarship chances.
